>> Bianca Gandolfo: So
what to expect is, step one
is really submitting your resume or
application, no surprise here.
You're gonna either do that by emailing
someone, talking to someone in person and
then emailing them your resume, or
applying through some online portal.
Or maybe even using some platform
like Hire.com or Triplebyte,
which has a hybrid model where you set
up a profile and companies seek you.
The next step may or
may not happen at the very first step, but
it could happen throughout any step of the
process, which is the coding challenge.
And this doesn't happen for all companies,
but it seems to be getting more and
more popular.
So the coding challenge can be
a HackerRank test, where you're timed and
you're solving data structures and
algorithms problems, or
some multiple choice kind of questions,
so sort of trivia related to
whatever your domain expertise
may be that you're applying for.
It could be to write an app from scratch.
Usually they're pretty simple,
like a to-do app or
something like that with
no data persistence.
Or they'll give you a demo app and
you're supposed to implement
a future in this app that's already made.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: The next
step is recruiter phone screen.
This is more kind of, I get to know you,
it's very friendly.
The recruiter is gonna spend time
marketing the company to you,
why it's a great place to work,
what their culture is like.
So this is a pretty easy step
in terms of technical interview,
in terms of the whole process, but
you do need to take it seriously and
you still need to research for it.
Research about the company and
have questions to ask, things like that.
Then there's the technical phone screen,
this is usually
where you're typing in a Collabedit or
even a Google Docs.
So you're gonna be coding in an odd
environment, and you'll be answering often
data structures and algorithms questions,
general questions about your past
projects, your experience, technologies
that you've worked with, things like that.
And the very final step, sometimes
there'll be one technical phone screen,
sometimes there'll be two, it depends
on the company that you're working for.
Sometimes the coding challenge comes
after the technical screen, or
sometimes the coding challenge comes
before the technical screen and
then you talk about your implementation
with your phone interviewer.
The onsite interview,
these are pretty much a whole day affair.
I've seen them be broken
up into two half days, but
generally you can expect four to six hours
of interviews for an on site interview.
If you're out of town, they'll fly you in.
They usually pay for your hotel and
things like that.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Yeah,
so it's similar to the technical screen,
where they're gonna be asking you to
talk about your past projects,
your specific domain knowledge.
So if you're doing a front-end,
you're applying for a front-end role,
you're going to be asked
questions probably about CSS.
Or if you have a framework on your resume,
like React or Angular,
expect questions about that.
Trade-offs that you would make, and
examples of things that you've
made with those technologies.
And then also you'll be doing
likely data structures and
algorithms type questions, especially
if you're applying to a bigger company.
Smaller startups tend to err on
the side of less data structures and
algorithms, and then larger companies
tend to rely more heavily on them.
So what that means for you is,
if you're applying to one of the larger
tech companies, really really drill on
those data structures and algorithms,
especially if you are a new grad or this
is your first job as a software engineer.
They're likely gonna be more focused on
the problem solving data structures and
algorithms versus deep domain knowledge.
So new grad rules, internships, things
like that, more data structure-centric,
bigger companies even more
data structure-centric.
Startups aren't that worried about data
structures, but they should ask you
some coding challenge type questions
that might rely on a data structure.
And so you do need to do some
preparation for that, but
I would focus more on showing that
you can hit the ground running.
Often startups don't have the resources
to invest in training you, and so they're
really just trying to see if you can come
in, be independent, wear multiple hats.
These are small startups, there's also
larger startups that have more resources,
so kind of think about this in a range,
it's not a black or
white type of statement.
What do you think is gonna be the most
challenging aspect of the process?
>> Speaker 2: Onsite interview.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Yeah.
>> Speaker 2: Bear with
me.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Yeah,
yeah, no problem.
Onsite interview, why is that?
>> Speaker 2: Well,
cuz you have the actual
knowledge factors involved, but
you also have the psychological,
emotional factors.
That's also gonna put pressure on your
thought process and how you analyze and
break a problem down, versus if you
were just hanging at some place,
that comfortable zone that
you're [INAUDIBLE] thinking.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Yeah, and
also it's long.
Right, multiple hours of being grilled,
yeah.
>> Speaker 3: For me,
it's anything on the phone.
So just based on your layout, technical
phone screen would be terrifying,
because you can't read the cues, right?
And then so it feels almost like you can't
make a personal connection, right, and
they're throwing these questions at you.
So that for
me is definitely the scariest part.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Hm, yeah.
>> Speaker 3: Because I think
by the time they bring you on site
they've already kind of invested, and
they've vetted you enough to bring you in.
It's almost like they
don't want you to fail
at that point.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Yeah.
>> Speaker 3: But I think anything leading
up to that is just elimination game.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Yeah, totally.
And another thing I forgot to mention when
I talked about technical phone screens is,
sometimes they're just high level
questions about your domain expertise.
So I've had technical interviews where
there was no coding involved at all,
just compare and
contrast different frameworks,
talking about data flow
through your application,
and how would you setup the project for
the first time, these kinds of questions.
That happened to me once, so
I wanted to mention that.
Okay, so that's what to expect.
So how do you overachieve at each step?
So for the resume application piece,
get a recommendation.
If you can, hopefully you can find someone
who you know, a friend of a friend,
especially someone you used to work with,
and get a recommendation that way.
If not, it's better than nothing
just to meet someone on LinkedIn,
ask for a conversation, meet for coffee,
and ask for a recommendation that way.
This works especially if you're
part of the same network, so
if you went to a coding bootcamp or
something like that you can ask
someone who went to your same school.
Or if you want to college, there's
sorority or fraternity kind of groups.
These are kind of networks you
can pull from and contact.
Or you could just cold call,
and see what you can, you know?
It never hurts to ask.
And then, for the coding challenge,
what they're really looking for,
is clean, correct code.
So you wanna make sure that your
indentation is correct, all your brackets,
or all of your semicolons,
are inserted, if you use semicolons.
That you're being modular,
you're breaking your functions up into
the smallest possible components in
a reasonable way without going too crazy.
Especially with time constraints,
you might not have time
to go too crazy with it.
And then once you get to the, mm-hm?
>> Speaker 4: So it may be kind of a weird
question, but do you find it's worth it to
bring in a linter on coding challenges,
just to enforce that, or do you feel then
they look at it and, they're cheating?
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Well, it depends.
So some coding challenges are on
a platform like HackerRank, and so
I don't believe HackerRank has a linter.
But if you're pulling in a code
from GitHub, for example,
you should just have a linter set up
in your editor and just use that, yeah.
Yeah, but there
might be an online,
>> Bianca Gandolfo: There might be an app
where you can paste in code and
it lints it for you, I'm not sure.
I usually just do it locally,
but yeah, that's a good question.
There's the other thing, as HackerRank
will track whether you copy and paste
stuff, and they gauge if they think that
you're plagiarizing, and things like that.
So I would just be careful with
copying and pasting inside and
outside of the HackerRank
platform in particular.
The other ones, I'm not as familiar with.
Okay.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: So,
recruiter phone screen.
So they wanna just make sure that
you're gonna fit in with the team,
that you seem like a nice person, and that
you have reasonable reasons for why you
are leaving your company and why you're
interested in their particular company.
So, how do you overachieve for this?
Read their engineering blog if they have
one, know about what's going on with
the company, just quick Google search,
find out news and ask them about that.
So it just shows that you're engaged and
you're interested in what they do.
Technical phone screen,
they're just looking for
your technical ability and also fit.
When I say fit, basically what
that means is, do they like you?
Would they enjoy working with you?
And do they think the other people on
their team are also gonna enjoy working
with you?
And so they're gonna be
gauging that throughout, so
communication is key
throughout the process.
Don't be silent if you could help it,
and be confident, and
be nice, and ask them how they're doing.
If it's a Monday,
maybe ask them how their weekend was.
Just normal things like that
can make you come off as more
sociable, more of a fit than
not doing those things.
Onsite interview is really similar, so
more data structure and algorithms.
Tends to be a little bit harder than
the phone screen, depends on the company.
Some companies their phone screen,
technical challenge is just to kind of
check if you can code kind of challenge,
so it'll be a Fizz-Buzz where you're just
looping and you're printing things out.
But more and more I'm seeing the technical
phone screens are more similar to
the onsite interviews,
except they're shorter.
And so
the problems maybe a little bit easier,
just because the time constraint of
the phone screen is usually 45 minutes or
so, versus onsite it's more like an hour.
Although that can vary, of course.
So know your data structure algorithms,
thinking ahead of time
about recent projects.
Like a highlight reel,
what are some really cool challenges that
you saw recently, how did you do it?
Just have that on hand.
Here's the other one, what was some issue
you had with someone you work with?
How did you resolve it?
So just write these things down and
have them ready.
When people ask you to tell you about
themselves you can give them a good answer
about who you are, what you do, and
what you're interested in next.
All right.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: All right,
yeah, and another thing is,
have a conversational tone.
You don't need to be overly formal, but
you don't wanna be too informal as well,
you wanna have a good balance there.
Okay, any questions about how to
overachieve at each of these steps?
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Mm-hm?
>> Speaker 5: So if a recruiter, or
whoever your future employer may be,
asks you, tell me about yourself,
how do you approach that?
>> Bianca Gandolfo: I just flail,
usually.
>> Speaker 5: Okay.
[LAUGH]
>> Bianca Gandolfo: [LAUGH] No.
I mean, so the format I try to take is,
this is who I am,
this is where I work,
this is something I'm working on lately.
And then usually I say, and also I
do a lot of education related stuff,
and I really am passionate about that.
So that's kind of the format.
I'm like, who I am, what I do now, or
the project that I'm currently working on?
And some other technical
tidbit that shows that I'm
engaged to have some technical
leadership type experience.
So that's kind of how I do it, yeah.
>> Speaker 5: So stuff like,
this is why I love what I do, and this is
why I am who I am, and more like, this
is what's currently going on in my life?
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Yeah, yeah.
At least I like to draw
from just the facts, and
then let them kind of speak for
themselves.
I don't know if that's necessarily
the best technique, but
that's just my approach generally, yeah.